
═══ PROSA: tests/fixtures/prose/ladder/r320.txt — 319 parole (piolo 0) ═══
    Compost is a mixture of ingredients used as plant fertilizer and to improve soil's physical, 
    chemical, and biological properties. It is commonly prepared by decomposing plant and food 
    waste, recycling organic materials, and manure. The resulting mixture is rich in plant 
    nutrients and beneficial organisms, such as bacteria, protozoa, nematodes, and fungi. Compost 
    improves soil fertility in gardens, landscaping, horticulture, urban agriculture, and organic 
    farming, reducing dependency on commercial chemical fertilizers. The benefits of compost 
    include providing nutrients to crops as fertilizer, acting as a soil conditioner, increasing 
    the humus or humic acid contents of the soil, and introducing beneficial microbes that help to 
    suppress pathogens in the soil and reduce soil-borne diseases. At the most basic level, 
    composting requires gathering a mix of green waste (nitrogen-rich materials such as leaves, 
    grass, and food scraps) and brown waste (woody materials rich in carbon, such as stalks, paper, 
    and wood chips). The materials break down into humus in a process taking months. Composting can 
    be a multistep, closely monitored process with measured inputs of water, air, and carbon- and 
    nitrogen-rich materials. The decomposition process is aided by shredding the plant matter, 
    adding water, and ensuring proper aeration by regularly turning the mixture in a process using 
    open piles or windrows. Fungi, earthworms, and other detritivores further break up the organic 
    material. Aerobic bacteria and fungi manage the chemical process by converting the inputs into 
    heat, carbon dioxide, and ammonium ions. Composting is an important part of waste management, 
    since food and other compostable materials make up about 20% of waste in landfills, and due to 
    anaerobic conditions, these materials take longer to biodegrade in the landfill. Composting 
    offers an environmentally superior alternative to using organic material for landfill because 
    composting reduces methane emissions due to anaerobic conditions, and provides economic and 
    environmental co-benefits. For example, compost can also be used for land and stream 
    reclamation, wetland construction, and landfill cover.

(passo 1 saltato: P0_PROBE_STEP2=1)

─── PASSO 2 · legge tutta la prosa, poi risponde. La risposta E' nel testo ───

  DOMANDA                            SPECIE     ESITO  RISPOSTA
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  what is compost?                   merito     ✓    Compost is classed as mixture.
  what does compost improve?         merito     ✓    Soil fertility.
  what does composting require?      merito     ✓    Gathering a mix.
  what do the materials break down   merito     ✓    Humus.
  what do fungi break up?            merito     ✓    Organic material.
  what is the resulting mixture ri   merito     ✓    plant nutrients.
  what do aerobic bacteria manage?   merito     ✓    chemical process.
  what does composting offer?        merito     ✓    Environmentally superior alternative.
  what does composting reduce?       merito     ✓    Methane emissions.
  what is composting an important    merito     ✓    Waste management.
  what do the benefits of compost    merito     ✓    providing nutrients.
  what can compost be used for?      merito     ·     I don't understand that yet.
  what is compost used as?           merito     ✓    Plant fertilizer.
  how many sentences does the text   struttura  ✓    The text has 14 sentences.
  how many words does the text hav   struttura  ✓    The text has 319 words.
  what is the first sentence?        struttura  ✓    It begins: Compost is a mixture of ingredients used as plant f
  how does the text begin?           struttura  ✓    It begins: Compost is a mixture of ingredients used as plant f
  what is the last sentence?         struttura  ✓    It ends: For example, compost can also be used for land and st
  what is this text about?           meta       ✓    The text is about Compost.
  what is the topic?                 meta       ✓    The text is about Compost.
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  merito     12/13
  meta       2/2
  struttura  5/5

  19 domande su 20 hanno ricevuto quello che il testo dice.
  ⛔ CANCELLO: 62 parole di domande nel merito risolte, ne servono piu' di 319 (mancano 258).
  ⛔ 1 restano senza: la risposta E' nel testo, e il lettore non la porta.

